---
title: About WebCOOS
---

# Project Overview

Webcams are transforming how environmental monitoring is conducted. Video data is being used for
transportation and commerce applications, preparedness and risk reduction, and stewardship of
coastal resources. The project, Webcams for Coastal Observations and Operational Support (WebCOOS),
will develop a webcam coastal observing network for quantitative scientific analysis, public safety,
and resource management for coastal municipalities. To accomplish this, standardized data processing
and management methodology will be established to provide stakeholders such as lifeguards, emergency
managers, and coastal managers with actionable information from webcam videos. This project will
result in immediate benefits to partners by filling gaps in critical coastal observations. For
instance, webcam data will help NOAA validate and improve their rip current forecast model, and USGS
relies on webcam observations of wave run- up for research on beach erosion, overwash, and
inundation. In both of these cases and others, there are extremely limited coastal observations
available to address these needs.

WebCOOS will also provide stakeholders with valuable imagery and derived products to support
observational and operational support needs along the coastal zone. This will be accomplished by
utilizing a low-cost coastal observing platform, i.e. webcams, integrated with Artificial
Intelligence (AI) and MachineLearning (ML) applications. Cameras located along the coast will allow
researchers and scientists to collect images and data that could be used to meet stakeholders
observational and operational needs. A webcam video database will provide centralized access to
historical and real time video data that can be accessed to benefit various applications and
organizations.

## Current Scientific Applications

Project partners and scientists will be utilizing this data to develop algorithms and tools to
identify shoreline water levels (tides, surge, wave run-up) and rip currents from webcam imagery.
The data will also be used to develop a situational awareness tool that aims to provide data on
various beach activities and hazards to support a broad range of stakeholders.

## Submit Camera Information

If you operate a camera and would like to be part of the WebCOOS project, please fill out our
[sign up form](/sign-up).
